{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww32000\viewh18620\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
# This file has been created by ANDREA BERTANA on December 3, 2019.\
Edited on 19th March 2020 to make it more readable for GITHUB\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 # COURSERA FINAL ASSIGNMENT\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 #art 1: Yelp Dataset Profiling and Understanding\
\

\f1\b 1. Profile the data by finding the total number of records for each of the tables below:\

\f0\b0 	\
SELECT COUNT(*)\
FROM tablename # Could not find a way to separeta counts for multiple tablenames\
	\
	\
i. Attribute table = 10000\
ii. Business table = 10000\
iii. Category table =10000\
iv. Checkin table =10000\
v. elite_years table =10000\
vi. friend table = 10000\
vii. hours table =10000\
viii. photo table = 10000\
ix. review table = 10000\
x. tip table = 10000\
xi. user table =10000\
\
\

\f1\b 2. Find the total distinct records by either the foreign key or primary key for each table. If two foreign keys are listed in the table, please specify which foreign key.\

\f0\b0 \
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT primORforeign_key) \
FROM tablename\
\
#e.g. For business table\
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT id) \
FROM business\
\
\
i. Business = 10000\
ii. Hours = 1562\
iii. Category = 2643\
iv. Attribute = 1115\
v. Review = business_id: 8090\
vi. Checkin = 493\
vii. Photo = business_id: 6493\
viii. Tip = user_id: 573\
ix. User = 10000 \
x. Friend = 11\
xi. Elite_years = 2780\
\

\f1\b 3. Are there any columns with null values in the Users table? Indicate "yes," or "no."\

\f0\b0 \
	Answer: 
\f1\b no
\f0\b0 \
	\
	\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	\
		SELECT COUNT(*) FROM user\
		WHERE id IS NULL OR \
		      name IS NULL OR \
		      review_count IS NULL OR \
		      yelping_since IS NULL OR\
		      useful IS NULL OR \
		      funny IS NULL OR \
		      cool IS NULL OR \
		      fans IS NULL OR \
		      average_stars IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_hot IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_more IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_profile IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_cute IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_list IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_note IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_plain IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_cool IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_funny IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_writer IS NULL OR \
		      compliment_photos IS NULL \
		      \
		      \
		      \

\f1\b 	4. For each table and column listed below, display the smallest (minimum), largest (maximum), and average (mean) value for the following fields:\

\f0\b0 \
            SELECT AVG(columnname), MIN(columnname), MAX(columnname)\
            FROM tablename\
\
\
\
	i. Table: Review, Column: Stars\
	\
		min:1		max:5		avg:3.7082\
		\
	\
	ii. Table: Business, Column: Stars\
	\
		min:1		max:5		avg:3.6549\
		\
	\
	iii. Table: Tip, Column: Likes\
	\
		min:0		max:2		avg:0.0144\
		\
	\
	iv. Table: Checkin, Column: Count\
	\
		min:1	    max:53		avg:1.9414\
		\
	\
	v. Table: User, Column: Review_count\
	\
		min:0		max:2000	avg:24.2995\
		\
	\

\f1\b 	5. List the cities with the most reviews in descending order:\

\f0\b0 \
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	    \
	   SELECT city, SUM(review_count) AS review FROM business\
        GROUP BY city\
		ORDER BY review DESC\
\
\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
	\
	+-----------------+--------+\
| city            | review |\
+-----------------+--------+\
| Las Vegas       |  82854 |\
| Phoenix         |  34503 |\
| Toronto         |  24113 |\
| Scottsdale      |  20614 |\
| Charlotte       |  12523 |\
| Henderson       |  10871 |\
| Tempe           |  10504 |\
| Pittsburgh      |   9798 |\
| Montr\'e9al        |   9448 |\
| Chandler        |   8112 |\
| Mesa            |   6875 |\
| Gilbert         |   6380 |\
| Cleveland       |   5593 |\
| Madison         |   5265 |\
| Glendale        |   4406 |\
| Mississauga     |   3814 |\
| Edinburgh       |   2792 |\
| Peoria          |   2624 |\
| North Las Vegas |   2438 |\
| Markham         |   2352 |\
| Champaign       |   2029 |\
| Stuttgart       |   1849 |\
| Surprise        |   1520 |\
| Lakewood        |   1465 |\
| Goodyear        |   1155 |\
+-----------------+--------+\
(Output limit exceeded, 25 of 362 total rows shown)\
\
\

\f1\b 6. Find the distribution of star ratings to the business in the following cities:\

\f0\b0 \
i. Avon\
\
SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
\
 SELECT stars, SUM(review_count) AS count FROM business\
 WHERE city == 'Avon'\
 GROUP by stars\
\
Copy and Paste the Resulting Table Below (2 columns \'e2\'80\'93 star rating and count):\
\
+-------+-------+\
| stars | count |\
+-------+-------+\
|   1.5 |    10 |\
|   2.5 |     6 |\
|   3.5 |    88 |\
|   4.0 |    21 |\
|   4.5 |    31 |\
|   5.0 |     3 |\
+-------+-------+\
\
ii. Beachwood\
\
SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
\
 SELECT stars, SUM(review_count) AS count FROM business\
 WHERE city == 'Beachwood'\
 GROUP by stars\
\
\
Copy and Paste the Resulting Table Below (2 columns \'e2\'80\'93 star rating and count):\
\
+-------+-------+\
| stars | count |\
+-------+-------+\
|   2.0 |     8 |\
|   2.5 |     3 |\
|   3.0 |    11 |\
|   3.5 |     6 |\
|   4.0 |    69 |\
|   4.5 |    17 |\
|   5.0 |    23 |\
+-------+-------+\
\

\f1\b 7. Find the top 3 users based on their total number of reviews:\

\f0\b0 		\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	\
	SELECT name, review_count as count FROM user \
    ORDER by count DESC\
	\
\
		\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
	\
		+-----------+-------+\
| name      | count |\
+-----------+-------+\
| Gerald    |  2000 |\
| Sara      |  1629 |\
| Yuri      |  1339 |\
\
\

\f1\b 8. Does posing more reviews correlate with more fans?\

\f0\b0 \
	Please explain your findings and interpretation of the results:\
	\
	It seems that it does not correlate. If we compute the pearson correlation we get a low correlation of .437. \
\
    Code:\
    \
    select avg( (review_count - avg_x) * (fans - avg_y) )*avg( (review_count - avg_x) * (fans - avg_y) )/(var_x*var_y) as Pcorrelation \
    from user, (select \
        avg_x,\
        avg_y,\
        avg((review_count - avg_x)*(review_count - avg_x)) as var_x, \
        avg((fans - avg_y)*(fans - avg_y)) as var_y \
        from user, (select \
            avg(review_count) as avg_x, \
            avg(fans) as avg_y \
            from user)\
    );\
    \
    	\

\f1\b 9. Are there more reviews with the word "love" or with the word "hate" in them?\

\f0\b0 \
	Answer: Love appears in more review (1780) then hate (232)\
\
	\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
    \
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM review\
    WHERE text LIKE "%word%"\
    \
    10. Find the top 10 users with the most fans:\
\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	\
	+-----------+------+\
| name      | fans |\
+-----------+------+\
| Amy       |  503 |\
| Mimi      |  497 |\
| Harald    |  311 |\
| Gerald    |  253 |\
| Christine |  173 |\
| Lisa      |  159 |\
| Cat       |  133 |\
| William   |  126 |\
| Fran      |  124 |\
| Lissa     |  120 |\
+-----------+------+\
\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
	\
    SELECT name, fans FROM user \
    ORDER by fans DESC\
	LIMIT 10\
	\
	\

\f1\b Part 2: Inferences and Analysis\

\f0\b0 \

\f1\b 1. Pick one city and category of your choice and group the businesses in that city or category by their overall star rating. Compare the businesses with 2-3 stars to the businesses with 4-5 stars and answer the following questions. Include your code.\

\f0\b0 	\
	I choose Las Vegas and Shopping.\
\

\f1\b i. Do the two groups you chose to analyze have a different distribution of hours?\

\f0\b0 \
Code: Here I use a different code compared to answer ii and iii because I did not want to group over\
hours. Othewise, I should have exptract the hours only and transform them.\
\
SELECT  b.city, c.category, b.review_count, hours.hours, b.stars\
FROM (business b INNER JOIN category c ON b.id = \
c.business_id) INNER JOIN hours ON hours.business_id =\
b.id\
WHERE b.city = 'Las Vegas' AND c.category = "Shopping"\
ORDER BY b.stars ASC\
\
Answer:\
\
+-----------+----------+--------------+-----------------------+-------+\
| city      | category | review_count | hours                 | stars |\
+-----------+----------+--------------+-----------------------+-------+\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Monday|8:00-22:00     |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Tuesday|8:00-22:00    |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Friday|8:00-22:00     |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Wednesday|8:00-22:00  |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Thursday|8:00-22:00   |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Sunday|8:00-22:00     |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            6 | Saturday|8:00-22:00   |   2.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Monday|10:00-16:00    |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Tuesday|10:00-19:00   |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Friday|10:00-16:00    |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Wednesday|10:00-16:00 |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Thursday|10:00-19:00  |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           11 | Saturday|10:00-16:00  |   3.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Monday|8:00-16:30     |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Tuesday|8:00-16:30    |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Friday|8:00-16:30     |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Wednesday|8:00-16:30  |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Thursday|8:00-16:30   |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Sunday|8:00-16:30     |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |           32 | Saturday|8:00-16:30   |   4.5 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            4 | Friday|8:00-17:00     |   5.0 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            4 | Tuesday|8:00-17:00    |   5.0 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            4 | Thursday|8:00-17:00   |   5.0 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            4 | Wednesday|8:00-17:00  |   5.0 |\
| Las Vegas | Shopping |            4 | Monday|8:00-17:00     |   5.0 |\
+-----------+----------+--------------+-----------------------+-------+\
\

\f1\b Yes. They have differnt distributions. 2-3 stars are distributed over a longer range then 4-5 stars.\
There is a clear tendency for 4-5 starts to be reported earlier in the day than 2-3 stats. This might\
suggest a tendency to be less satisfied with the shopping service as people become more tired during \
the day.
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b ii. Do the two groups you chose to analyze have a different number of reviews?\

\f0\b0          \
\

\f1\b They have a different number of reviews but it is not substantial. \

\f0\b0 \

\f1\b iii. Are you able to infer anything from the location data provided between these two groups? Explain.\

\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Yes, the activities with 2-3 stars are on the same stree and zip code. This might suggest that the location\
of the stores might influence people ratings.\

\f0\b0 \
SQL code used for analysis:\
SELECT b.name, b.city, c.category, b.stars ,h.hours, b.review_count, b.address,b.postal_code\
FROM (business b INNER JOIN category c ON b.id = \
c.business_id) INNER JOIN hours h ON h.business_id = b.id\
WHERE b.city = 'Las Vegas' AND c.category = "Shopping"\
GROUP BY b.stars;\
	\
		\
		+--------------------------------+-----------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+-----------------------------+-------------+\
| name                           | city      | category | stars | hours                | review_count | address                     | postal_code |\
+--------------------------------+-----------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+-----------------------------+-------------+\
| Walgreens                      | Las Vegas | Shopping |   2.5 | Saturday|8:00-22:00  |            6 | 3808 E Tropicana Ave        | 89121       |\
| Wooly Wonders                  | Las Vegas | Shopping |   3.5 | Saturday|10:00-16:00 |           11 | 3421 E Tropicana Ave, Ste I | 89121       |\
| Red Rock Canyon Visitor Center | Las Vegas | Shopping |   4.5 | Saturday|8:00-16:30  |           32 | 1000 Scenic Loop Dr         | 89161       |\
| Desert Medical Equipment       | Las Vegas | Shopping |   5.0 | Monday|8:00-17:00    |            4 | 3555 W Reno Ave, Ste F      | 89118       |\
+--------------------------------+-----------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+-----------------------------+-------------+\
\

\f1\b 2. Group business based on the ones that are open and the ones that are closed. What differences can you find between the ones that are still open and the ones that are closed? List at least two differences and the SQL code you used to arrive at your answer.\

\f0\b0 		\
i. Difference 1:\

\f1\b          There are more businesses that are open (446) than then the ones that are closed (61).\

\f0\b0          \
ii. Difference 2:\

\f1\b          Businesses that are open have more review (on average each location had 394 review) than shops that are closed \
         (which have on average 151). Moreover, open shops have also a slighlty higher average star (3.76 open - 3.54 closed).
\f0\b0 \
         \
SQL code used for analysis:\
\
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT(b.id)), \
b.is_open, \
AVG(b.stars), \
SUM(b.review_count) / COUNT(DISTINCT(b.id)),\
COUNT(r.useful),\
COUNT(r.funny)\
FROM (business b INNER JOIN review r ON  b.id=r.business_id)\
GROUP BY is_open\
	\
	+-----------------------+---------+---------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------+\
| COUNT(DISTINCT(b.id)) | is_open |  AVG(b.stars) | SUM(b.review_count) / COUNT(DISTINCT(b.id)) | COUNT(r.useful) | COUNT(r.funny) |\
+-----------------------+---------+---------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------+\
|                    61 |       0 | 3.54225352113 |                                         151 |              71 |             71 |\
|                   446 |       1 |  3.7610619469 |                                         394 |             565 |            565 |\
+-----------------------+---------+---------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------+\
\

\f1\b 3. For this last part of your analysis, you are going to choose the type of analysis you want to conduct on the Yelp dataset and are going to prepare the data for analysis.\

\f0\b0 \
Ideas for analysis include: Parsing out keywords and business attributes for sentiment analysis, clustering businesses to find commonalities or anomalies between them, predicting the overall star rating for a business, predicting the number of fans a user will have, and so on. These are just a few examples to get you started, so feel free to be creative and come up with your own problem you want to solve. Provide answers, in-line, to all of the following:\
	\
i. Indicate the type of analysis you chose to do:\
         \
       
\f1\b   I have clustered businesses in Automotive, Professional Services, Health & Medical, Shopping and Food to\
         investigate commonalities and differences between them. In particular, I would like to see how many stores\
         there are for each type, the average star rating and the average review count.\
        \

\f0\b0          \
ii. Write 1-2 brief paragraphs on the type of data you will need for your analysis and why you chose that data:\
                           \
                  \
iii. Output of your finished dataset:\
\
         +-----------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------------+\
| category              | NumberOfStores |    AVG(stars) | AVG(review_count) |\
+-----------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------------+\
| Automotive            |              9 |           4.5 |              22.0 |\
| Professional Services |              4 |          4.25 |              71.0 |\
| Health & Medical      |             17 | 4.08823529412 |     11.9411764706 |\
| Shopping              |             30 | 3.98333333333 |     32.5666666667 |\
| Food                  |             23 | 3.78260869565 |     77.4347826087 |\
+-----------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------------+\
         \
iv. Provide the SQL code you used to create your final dataset:\
\
SELECT c.category,COUNT(b.name) AS NumberOfStores, AVG(stars),AVG(review_count)\
FROM business b INNER JOIN category c ON c.business_id = b.id\
WHERE c.category IN ('Food', 'Shopping', 'Professional Services', 'Health & Medical', 'Automotive', 'Jewelry Repair')\
GROUP BY c.category\
ORDER BY AVG(stars) DESC}